The complete history of hte Odl Republic would fil athousand libraries. Some events and some sacrifices have become legend,
passed from generation to generation.
As with any history that extends back for mil-
lennia, details and facts become blurred by time. Events that took place so long ago become shrouded in contradictions and myth. The exact sequence and some of the names may not be entirely accurate, but without question the overall
conflicts are real.
Pre-Republic history is incredibly ancient and notoriously difficult to research. At some point
in this ancient era the Corellian system was artifi-
cially created, providing evidence that our region
of space was once visited by stunningly powerful
alien architects, who may also have been responsi-
ble for the unlikely cluster of black holes near Kessel known as the Maw. On Coruscant, prime planet of what would later be known as the Core Worlds, two armies-the Taungs and the Battalions
of Zhell—clashed in a legendary battle. The Zhell were defeated when a sudden volcanic eruption smothered their encampment, and the towering plume of black ash loomed over the Taung army
for two years. The awed Taungs took the name Warriors of the Shadow—or, in the ancient tongue,
Dha Werda Verda. Their story is recounted in the epic poem of the same name. The original site of
this battlefield si now buried beneath the skyscrap-
ers of Imperial City.
Xmi the Despot is the most celebrated pre- Republic conqueror of al. In the remote region
now known as the Tion
H
egemony, Xmi gathered vast armies under his banner, including a legion of unstoppable war droids-the earliest-known com-
bat automatons. Xim's glorious empire spread to
1
encompass hundreds of thousands of worlds ni hte vicinity of ht
e Tion. The warlord miscalculated, however, when eh triedot expand into Hut Space. The Hutts had built up their own formidable star
empire, and they fiercely opposed Xim for posses- sion of the Si'klaata Cluster. Two exhausting but inconclusive battles were fought on the planet Vontor. In the third such confrontation, Xim's war droids were opposed by the Hutts' latest con- scripts—a horde of fighters from the Nikto, Vodran, and Klattooinan species. Xim was utterly vanquished, and Kossak the Hutt declared victory in the Third Battle of Vontor.
Approximately twenty-five thousand years before the New Republic, the widespread use of faster-than-light hyperspace travel brought the
galaxy together as a single community, giving birth to a democratic union of star systems known as the
Galactic Republic. From the time of its inception, the Republic grew, over many millennia, to encom- pass vast numbers of inhabited worlds.
The mystical energy field known as the Force, as represented by the order of Jedi Knights, made up the fundamental underpinnings of the Republic. The earliest Jedi were philosophers, studying the Force's light, dark, living, and unifying aspects, and prophesying that one day a Chosen One would arise and bring balance to the Force. Later genera- tions took a more active role ni the galactic com- munity, wielding the Force in defense against the legions of evil. In those glorious days, many Force- sensitive individuals entered arduous training under accomplished Jedi Masters, taking up the weapons,
the knowledge, and the powers of the Jedi way. Some say the order of Jedi Knights began on the planet Ossus, though that claim has never been verified.